## 1.  What is generic in Java?  and type the generic code by yourself.
## 2.  Read those codes and type it one by one by yourself. then push the code to your branch.
## 3.  practice stream API at least 3 times
## 4.  Practice Optional methods at least 2 times

## 5.  Write the Singleton design pattern include eager load and lazy load. 
Eager load:
```java
public class EagerSingleton {
    private static final EagerSingleton instance = new EagerSingleton();
    
    private EagerSingleton() {
        // Private constructor to prevent instantiation
    }
    
    public static EagerSingleton getInstance() {
        return instance;
    }
}
```
lazy load:
```java
public class LazySingleton {
    private static LazySingleton instance;
    
    private LazySingleton() {
        // Private constructor to prevent instantiation
    }
    
    public static LazySingleton getInstance() {
        if (instance == null) {
            instance = new LazySingleton();
        }
        return instance;
    }
}

```
## 6.  What is Runtime Exception? could you give me some examples?
Runtime Exceptions in Java are exceptions that are thrown during the execution of a program, and they are unchecked exceptions. These do not need to be declared in a method's throws clause. Examples include NullPointerException, ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException, ClassCastException, etc.
## 7. Could you give me one example of NullPointerException?
A NullPointerException occurs when you try to use an object reference that has the null value. Here’s an example:
```java
String text = null;
int length = text.length(); // This will throw a NullPointerException
```
## 8.  What is the Optional class?
In short, it is used To avoid Null checks and run time NullPointerExceptions.

The Optional class in Java is a container object used to contain not-null objects. Optional object is used to represent null with absent value. It was introduced in Java 8 and provides a clear and explicit way to deal with null values effectively.
## 9.  What are the advantages of using the Optional class?
1. Reduces NullPointerExceptions
2. No More null Checks
3. Expressive and Readable Code
## 10. What is the @FunctionalInterface?
The @FunctionalInterface annotation is used to indicate that an interface is intended to be a functional interface, which means it should have exactly one abstract method. This annotation is not mandatory but helps in clearer intention and compile-time checking. It use lambda as the implementation of the abstract method.
## 11. what is lamda?
Lambda expressions in Java are a way to provide a clear and concise way to represent one method interface using an expression. They are especially useful for implementing simple method interfaces with a clear and concise code.
## 12. What is Method Reference?
Method reference is a shorthand notation of a lambda expression to call a method. Java 8 introduced method references to make lambda expressions even more concise. There are four types of method references:

1. Reference to a static method.
2. Reference to an instance method of a particular object.
3. Reference to an instance method of an arbitrary object of a particular type.
4. Reference to a constructor.
## 13. What is Java 8 new features?
1. Lambda expressions
2. Method references
3. Functional interfaces
4. Stream API
5. Optional class
6. New Date/Time API
7. Default and static methods in interfaces
## 14. Lambda can use unchanged variable outside of lambda? what is the details?
Yes, those variables must be either effectively final or actually final.

- Final variable
- Non-final variable however never changed
- Object variable (if we use new to reassign a new memory, then this variable is changed, can not be used in lambda)
## 15. Describe the newly added features in Java 8?
Java 8 new features enhanced functional programming capabilities, a new date-time API, and improvements in concurrency.
## 16. Can a functional interface extend/inherit another interface?
A functional interface can extend another interface only if it does not have any abstract method itself. The child interface is a functional interface if it doesn’t declare any new abstract methods.
## 17. What is the lambda expression in Java and How does a lambda expression relate to a functional interface?
A lambda expression in Java is a concise way to represent an instance of a functional interface using an expression.

A functional interface in Java is an interface that has exactly one abstract method, although it may have multiple default or static methods. Lambda expressions are essentially a concise way to provide the implementation of the abstract method of a functional interface without the need for an anonymous class.
## 18. In Java 8, what is Method Reference?
It's a concise way to refer to methods by their names rather than invoking them directly.
## 19. What does the String::ValueOf expression mean?
String::valueOf is a method reference to the valueOf method of the String class. It is used to convert an object or a value to its string representation.
## 20. What are Intermediate and Terminal operations?
Intermediate operations return a new stream and are always lazy; executing an intermediate operation such as filter, map, or sorted does not actually perform any filtering, mapping, or sorting. Terminal operations, such as forEach, collect, or reduce, mark the stream as consumed, after which it can no longer be used.
## 21. What are the most commonly used Intermediate operations?
筛选
* filter(Predicate p) - 接受lambda, 从流中排出某些元素
* limit(n) - 截断流，使其元素不超过给定的数量
* skip(n) - 跳过前n个元素
* distinct() - 筛选，通过元素的hashcode(), equals()去除重复元素

映射
* map(function f) element -> black box(f) -> return new element
* flatMap(function f) 

排序
* sort

## 22. What is the difference between findFirst() and findAny()?
findFirst(): Returns an Optional describing the first element of the stream, in encounter order. It is useful when you have an ordered stream and you want to find the first element according to its natural order or according to some comparator. In parallel streams, finding the first element can be more expensive due to the ordering constraint.

findAny(): Returns an Optional describing some element of the stream, not necessarily the first. This operation is more flexible in parallel operations since it can return any matching element from the data structure being processed, potentially offering higher performance in parallel streams where the operation can return the first element found rather than waiting to find the first in order.
## 23. How are Collections different from Stream?
Collections
* Data structure holds all the data elements
* External Iteration
* Can be processed any number of times
* Elements are easy to access
* Is a data store

Stream
* No data is stored. Have the capacity to process an infinite number of elements on demand
* Internal Iteration
* Traversed only once
* No direct way of accessing specific elements
* Is an API to process the data